# canvas

canvas is a full stack web application framework designed for minimalism and
extensibility. This package contains the WSGI application that constitutes
its backend.

All of the canvas backend's exposed functionality, aside from its `model` and 
`controller` packages (which are inteded by individual import), is available 
within this namespace. The canonical import is
```python
import canvas as cv
```


## Classes
### WrappedDict(dict)
A dictionary with a configurable key error.
#### Methods
#### \_\_getitem__(self, key)

Retrieve the value for `key` or raise
an exception if it's not present.

#### \_\_init__(self, source, exception_cls)
+ *source*:  The dictionary to copy into this dictionary. 
+ *exception_cls*:  The exception class to raise when a missing key is retrieve. Instances will have the offending key passed to their constructor.

Copy the dictionary `source` into this dictionary
and define the exception class to replace `KeyError`.


### JSONSerializer(object)
`JSONSerializer`s are singleton objects that serialize and deserialize 
data to and from JSON. They are applied to data dispatched to the client, 
so in general should produce easily comprehensible serializations. 
#### Methods
#### deserialize(self, data)
+ *data*:  The data to deserialize.

Inspect `data`, raising `Unrecognized` if this serializer does not 
recognize (i.e. cannot deserialize) it. Otherwise, return the 
deserialization.

Only values of `data` that could feasibly have been generated by 
`serialize()` should be deserialized.


#### serialize(self, obj, type_i)
+ *obj*:  The object to serialize. Guarenteed to be an instance of one of the types passed to the constructor. 
+ *type_i*:  The index of the type.

Serialize `obj` into a JSON-friendly value that will be recognizable by
this serializer for deserialization.


### ValidationErrors(Exception)
An error used to trigger an input validation error response.
### HTTPException(Exception)
An errors with a specific HTTP code (e.g. `500`, `404`, etc.).
### UnsupportedMethod(HTTPException)
An error used internally when an unsupported request method is used.
### BadRequest(HTTPException)
An error triggered by a bad request.
### Unprocessable(HTTPException)
An error triggered by an unprocessable entity.
### RequestParamError(HTTPException)
An error triggered by an incomplete request parameter set.
### UnknownAction(HTTPException)
An error to raise when an invalid `action` parameter is specified in a 
request. 
### NotFound(HTTPException)
An error used internally when an uncontrolled route is requested.
### ServiceUnavailable(HTTPException)
An error to raise when the server cannot fufill a request.
### TemplateNotFound(Exception)
An exception raised when a template cannot be located for render.
### ColumnDefinitionError(Exception)
An error raised when an invalid column type is declared.
### MacroParameterError(Exception)
An exception raised by Jinja macros when they are supplied an invalid set 
of parameters.
### MarkdownNotFound(Exception)
An exception raised when a markdown file doesn't exist.
### PluginConfigError(Exception)
An exception raised if a plugin modifies configuration incorrectly.
### ConfigKeyError(KeyError)
An exception raised as the `KeyError` for `config`.
### HeaderKeyError(KeyError)
An exception raised when a non-present header is retrieved.
### APIRouteDefinitionError(Exception)
An exception raised when the route of an `APIEndpointController` isn't 
prefixed with `api/`.
### TemplateOverlayError(Exception)
An exception raised when the `{% overlay %}` Jinja tag is used in a
bottom-level template.
### UnsupportedEnforcementMethod(Exception)
An exception raised by constraints when an unsupported enforcement
method is invoked.
### InvalidSchema(Exception)
An exception raised when a schema definition is invalid.
### InvalidQuery(Exception)
An exception raised when a `session.query()` is given invalid parameters.
### UnadaptedType(Exception)
An exception raised when an unadaptable leaf is reached in an 
`SQLExpression`.
### Unrecognized(Exception)
An exception raised by `JSONSerializer`s when they are unable to 
deserialize a value.

## Functions
### serve(port)

Serve the canvas development server on `localhost`.

Cannot be called until canvas is initialized.
### create_json(status_str, *data, status=200, headers={}, fallback_serializer=None)
+ *status_str*:  The status string. Should be one of
+ *data*:  (Optional) A data package. 
+ *status*:  The HTTP status code for the response. 
+ *headers*:  A dictionary of headers for the response. 
+ *fallback_serializer*:  A fallback serialization function for complex objects.

Create a JSON response tuple in the canonical format.

: `'success'`, `'failure'`, 
        or `'error'`.

### redirect_to(target, code=302)
+ *target*:  The URL to redirect to. 
+ *code*:  The HTTP redirect code. Must be `3xx`.

Redirect the view to `target`. Does not return a value. When called, flow 
control is halted.

`code` will be ignored if an AJAX POST request is being handled; The 
redirection will be formulated as a view action (it wouldn't work 
otherwise).

### get_thread_context()

Retrieve the request context mapped to the current thread, or `None` if 
there isn't one.
### flash_message(message)

Flash a message the next time a view or view update is sent.
### render_template(template_path, minify=None, template_params={}, response=False, status=200, headers={})
+ *template_path*:  The path of the template to render relative to `/templates`. 
+ *minify*:  Whether or not to minify the template as HTML. By default will only minify `.html` files. 
+ *template_params*:  An optional dictionary of global variables for the render context. 
+ *response*:  Whether to return a response tuple. 
+ *status*:  The status code for the response, if `response` is `True`. 
+ *headers*:  The header dictionary for the response, if `response` is `True`.

Render a Jinja template.

### asset_url(rel_path)

Return the URL relative to domain root for an asset. This method should 
always be called for asset retrieval to allow for forwards-compatability.
### get_asset(path, _recall=False)

Return the asset at `path`, or `None` if there isn't one. Besides searching
the `client` directory, also:

* Searches `templates/client`, giving assets found here prescedence.
* Searches for `.less` versions of non-existant `.css` files, compiling and
        returning them if found.
### compile_less(source)
+ *source*:  A string containing the source `less` to be compiled.

Compile `less` source with the common definitions prepended.

### format_traceback(error)
+ *error*:  The raised error.

Return a formatted traceback string for `error` if it has
been raised.

### logger(name=None)
+ *name*:  The name of the logger to create.

Create and return a standard library `logging.Logger`.
When invoked at package level, the name parameter can
be safely omitted.

### get_registered(*types)

Return all registered classes or functions registered as the given types 
or an empty list if there are none.
### get_registered_by_name(*types)

Generate and return a dictionary containing all classes or functions 
registered as the given type, keyed by name.
### call_registered(typ, *args)

Invoke all functions registered as `typ`. The callback prefix is 
prepended if not present.
### place_registered_on(name, typ)
+ *name*:  The name of the module whose namespace is the target. 
+ *typ*:  The registered type to place.

Add all registered classes or functions of the given typ to a module or 
package namespace.

### get_path_occurrences(target, include_base=True, filter=<function exists at 0x000002333CD78C80>)
+ *target*:  The search target as a relative path. 
+ *filter*:  An additional filter on inclusion given `path`, the absolute path to the file or folder. 
+ *include_base*:  Whether to also return the instance from the base `canvas` package, if it exists

Return a list of absolute paths to all files or directories with the given 
name in activated plugin directories, in order of ascending priority.

Priority is determined as plugin occurrences by activiation order, followed
by the occurance in the core if there is one.

### markup(text)

Transform the string `text` into markup that is not escaped when rendered 
in a template.

Beware of XSS vulnerabilities when using. In general, client-sourced data
should always be escaped in templates.
### markdown(markdown, return_markup=True)
+ *markdown*:  The string to render as markdown. 
+ *return_markup*:  Whether or not to return a markup object that will not be escaped when rendered.

Render a string as markdown.

Available as a template filter.

### uri_encode(text)

Return `text` encoded as a a URI component.
### json(obj, camelize_keys=False)
+ *camelize_props*:  Whether to convert snake case keys to camel case.

Return the JSON representation of the JSON-serializable object `obj`.

### serialize_json(obj, fallback=None)

Serialize a JSON object.
### deserialize_json(data)

Deserialize JSON data.
